# 2022年9月公共英语三级真题 (阅读与写作)

> **说明**：本练习册不包含听力部分。请在规定时间内完成。建议用时：95分钟。

---

## SECTION II Reading
**(50 minutes)**

### Part A
**Directions:** Read the following two texts. Answer the questions on each text by choosing A, B, C or D.

#### Text 1
A few years ago it was fashionable to speak of a generation gap, a division between young people and their elders. Parents complained that children did not show them proper respect and obedience, while children complained that their parents did not understand them at all. What had gone wrong? Why had the generation gap suddenly appeared? Actually, the generation gap has been around for a long time. Many critics argue that it is built into the fabric of our society.

One important cause of the generation gap is the opportunity that young people have to choose their own life style. In more traditional societies, when children grow up, they are expected to live in the same area as their parents, to marry people that their parents know and approve of, and often to continue the family occupation. In our society, young people often travel great distances for their educations, move out of the family home at an early age, marry or live with people whom their parents have never met, and choose occupations different from those of their parents.

In our upwardly mobile society, parents often expect their children to do better than they did: to find better jobs, to make more money, and to do all the things that they were unable to do. Often, however, the ambitions that parents have for their children are another cause of the division between them. Often, they discover that they have very little in common with each other.

Finally, the speed at which changes take place in our society is another cause of the gap between the generations. In a traditional culture, elderly people are valued for their wisdom, but in our society the knowledge of a lifetime may become obsolete overnight. The young and the old seem to live in two very different worlds, separated by different skills and abilities.

No doubt, the generation gap will continue to be a feature of American life for some time to come. Its causes are rooted in the freedoms and opportunities of our society, and in the rapid pace at which society changes.

26. The main idea of the first paragraph is that ______. C
    [A] how people can reduce the generation gap
    [B] the generation gap is a feature of American life
    [C] the generation gap suddenly appeared
    [D] many critics argue over the nature of the generation gap

27. The word “around” in Para. 1 means_A_____.
    [A] near
    [B] in every direction
    [C] on all sides
    [D] in existence

28. Which one is **NOT** the cause of the generation gap? B
    [A] Parents place high hopes on their children.
    [B] American society is changing very fast.
    [C] Young people like to choose their own life styles.
    [D] Modern education makes them think differently.

29. In American society, young people often______.
    [A] seek the best advice from their parents
    [B] stay with their parents in order to get an opportunity for higher education
    [C] rely on their parents to make a life
    [D] have very little in common with their parents

30. Which of the following statements is TRUE according to the reading passage?
    [A] The younger generation should value the elder.
    [B] Parents should be more tolerable towards their children generation for their wisdom.
    [C] The generation gap is partly created by the elder generation.
    [D] The generation gap should be avoidable in American society.

#### Text 2
In the traditional marriage, the man worked at a job to earn money for the family. Most men worked in an office, a factory, or some other place away from the home. Since the man earned the money, he paid the bills. The money was used for food, clothes, a house, and other family needs. The man made most of the decisions. He was the boss.

In the traditional marriage, the woman seldom worked away from the house. She stayed at home to care for the children and her husband. She cooked the meals, cleaned house, washed the clothes, and did other household work. Her job at home was very important. In recent years, many couples continue to have a traditional relationship of this kind. The man has a job and earns the money for the family. The woman stays at home and takes care of the children and the house. Many Americans are happy with this kind of marriage. But some other Americans have a different impression of marriage and family responsibilities. There are two important differences in male and female roles now. One is that both men and women have many more choices. They may choose to marry or to stay single. They may choose to work or stay at home. Both men and women may choose roles that are comfortable for them.

A second difference in male and female roles is that within marriage many decisions and responsibilities are shared. The husband and wife may choose to have children, or they may not. If they have children, the man may take care of them some of the time, all of the time, or not at all. The woman may want to stay at home and take care of the children. Or she may want to go to work. Men and women now decide these things together in a marriage. Many married people now share these decisions and the responsibilities of their families.

31. Which of the following is NOT true in the traditional marriage?
    [A] The woman stayed at home to care for the children.
    [B] The woman made most of decisions.
    [C] Men worked at a job to earn money for the family.
    [D] The man paid the bills.

32. According to the passage, in recent years______.
    [A] the woman doesn’t stay at home and care for the children and the house
    [B] the woman has a job and earns the money for the family
    [C] young couples reject the traditional relationship
    [D] the role of men and women has begun to change

33. Men and women may now choose all the following EXCEPT to______.
    [A] have the roles that are comfortable for them
    [B] work or to stay at home
    [C] marry or to stay single
    [D] leave their jobs just because they have children

34. The following are all now true EXCEPT______.
    [A] the man may take care of the children some of the time
    [B] they may choose to have children or not
    [C] the woman may want to go to work
    [D] the woman is the most important person in the house

35. Which of the following is NOT true?
    [A] Everyone tries to get married.
    [B] The woman’s job at home was very important in the past.
    [C] Many Americans still have a traditional marriage.
    [D] The man was the boss in the traditional marriage.

### Part B
**Directions:** Read the pieces taken from five letters to a magazine by five people commenting on an article about global warming. For questions 36-40, match the name of each person to one of the statements (A-G) given below.

**Michael:**
After reading your article “The Truth About Global Warming”, I’m no less concerned about the earth’s environmental condition. You say “Scientists are still differing with huge gaps in their knowledge. ” But Lindzen, the writer of the article, is no closer to the truth simply because he can criticize. Global warming may be far from understood, but let us act to prevent it anyway, just in case the effects are real.

**John:**
It’s shameful that you present Lindzen’s views on climate change as “The Truth About Global Warming”. It seems that your magazine is keeping an open mind, even though you admit that most climate scientists disagree with Lindzen’s opinions. You characterize the view that waste gases should be cut as “very European.” I take it that it is very American to pursue a policy of unlimited energy consumption without considering what most scientists and other countries think.

**Thomas:**
How can we believe a man who holds that there is only a very weak link between lung cancer and cigarette smoking? Lindzen’s position is unacceptable because it shows his lack of knowledge about cancer. I believe that French President Jacques Chirac is more informed on global warming which no serious scientist denies than President Bush, whose interests depend on the oil industry.

**Hans:**
What Lindzen says makes sense to me. For years I’ve read articles on negative climatic change and greenhouse effect. The only agreement seems to be “We agree that we disagree.” Considering the recent chilly summers in Germany, I’ve no idea where the “warming” can be found. In past decades, summers were hot, almost unbearable. Now, in the midst of summer, we turn the heaters on and wear warm clothes.

**Derek:**
The U. S. government should act for the American people by signing the Kyoto Agreement instead of acting for Big Oil in America. Even if scientists cannot agree on the numbers, global warming is taking place, and this is not beneficial to the planet. The anti-Kyoto position of the U.S. government is a short-term political move, but the long-term losers will be the American people and the environment.

**Statements**
[A] Lindzen really has a point to make on global warming.
[B] America will pay a price for its shortsightedness some day.
[C] Though opinions on global warming vary, we have to do something about it.
[D] Lindzen seems unqualified to speak of the effects of global warming on health.
[E] You really have an open mind to present Lindzen’s position on global warming.
[F] It’s good that Lindzen’s article helps further the discussion on global warming.
[G] America’s attitude toward waste gas control is to be blamed rather than Europe.

36. Michael: [ ]
37. John: [ ]
38. Thomas: [ ]
39. Hans: [ ]
40. Derek: [ ]

### Part C
**Directions:** Read the following text from which five sentences have been removed. Choose from the sentences A-G the most suitable one to fill each numbered gap in the text (41-45). There are TWO extra sentences that you do not need to use.

Throughout history, people have often selected where they want to live based on the natural resources that are available in the area. 41 ______ Some of these resources include water, food sources such as fruits and vegetables, and animals that can be caught or hunted.

A region’s natural resources determine the way of life of its people. 42 ______ On the other hand, poor soil will either send people looking for better places, or attract people with other purposes for the land, such as setting up business or factories.

43 ______ People who wish to make a living as fishermen can do so by the ocean, but cannot do in the desert. Desert people have many traditional and unique foods, which cannot be found in the forest. Each area attracts people based on their interests and purposes.

Areas that have rich water resources will naturally have more people. Traditionally, villages, towns and cities built near water have been the most successful. People there are able to use the water resources to meet their daily needs. 44 ______ Places that are hard to reach, such as high mountains or dry deserts, will have fewer people living in them.

45 ______ For too long, people have destroyed natural resources, using up those resources that cannot be easily replaced. On the earth, we are lucky to have many resources that are renewable, such as sun, wind, water, and trees. As more focus is placed on the use for renewable resources, it will become easier to protect our planet from further harm.

[A] New resources in nature have a significant impact on our development.
[B] It is easy to find new resources in nature.
[C] Renewable resources are those that can be replaced easily.
[D] While you may not think of oceans as natural resources, they are.
[E] For example, regions with rich soil can support farming societies.
[F] They can also use the water to help them move goods to other areas.
[G] Natural resources are useful to people, and they come from the earth.

### Part D
**Directions:** Read the following text from which 10 words have been removed. Choose from the words A-O the most suitable one to fill each numbered gap in the text (46-55). There are FIVE extra words that you do not need to use.

When two hands meet, we pass on something of ourselves. After being **46** to Mark Twain, Helen — who was both deaf and blind — commented, “I feel the twinkle of his eye in his handshake.” In some indefinable way, Twain had **47** his charm to Keller.

And that’s probably been true of the handshake all the way back to its earliest days, — **48** no one can tell its actual beginning. A common explanation is that **49** early man encountered a stranger, he held out his hand to **50** he had no weapon. From this, supposedly evolved the handshake.

Not so, says historian Brian Burke. He believes, the handshake implied “putting your blood behind your breath.” He explains that ancient people distrusted the spoken word alone, and they used the handclasp to signify that their **51** was backed up by the power of their heart — i.e. , their blood. **52**, the handshake suggested trust.

That meaning of trust has survived to this day. People in business **53** comply agreements simply by declaring, “Let’s shake on it.”

**54** the most reliable handshake took place on July 17, 1975, during the Apollo-Soyuz get-together in space. **55** the two crafts came together, American astronaut Thomas Stafford grasped the extended hand of Soviet cosmonaut Alexey Leonov. The message to the world was one of friendship and peace.

[A] before
[B] however
[C] show
[D] perhaps
[E] introduced
[F] never
[G] but
[H] promise
[I] think
[J] when
[K] after
[L] communicated
[M] thus
[N] after
[O] so

## SECTION III Writing
**(45 minutes)**

### Part A
56. Suppose you are the secretary of the manager of a company. Now you are asked to inform by email all personnel in your company of the dinner party to be held on Christmas Eve.
   Your email should include the following information:
   1) date and place of the party;
   2) who (maybe someone important) is coming to the party, and
   3) some interesting activities.
   You should write approximately 100 words. Do not sign your own name at the end of the letter. Use “Wang Lin” instead.

### Part B
57. **Directions:** Read the text below. Write an essay in about 120 words, in which you should summarize the key points of the text and make comments on them. Try to use your own words.

   A young man in China who has spent the last 12 years caring for his severely disabled mother has been praised for his selfless sacrifice on mainland social media.
   Dutiful son Yang Zhiyang, from Shanxi province in central China, has been looking after his mother, Su Ping, since she was diagnosed with ALS in 2011 which is a progressive disease that affects the spinal cord, causing problems with movement, paralysis and death.
   When he finished college, Yang became a full-time carer for her, Xinhua News reported. In a viral video, Yang can be seen helping his mother with rehabilitation. He also takes care of her daily needs, from eating to brushing her teeth.
   Since her diagnosis, both their lives have changed beyond recognition.
   As soon as Yang graduated from college, he began to give her round-the-clock care, helping her to brush her teeth, eat, dry her hair and wash her feet.
   The youngster even learned makeup skills to assist his mother.
   Although it presents many difficulties, Yang also takes her out to shop and dine.
   “Though it is very hard, it is precious and beautiful for us to look after her,” he told Xinhua.

---
**THAT IS THE END OF THE TEST.**
